// LS180 - Lesson 2: The SQL Language, Practice Problems

// Q1
SQL is a special-purpose, declarative programming language. It is described as
special-purpose because it is typically used only for one purpose: interacting
with relational databases. This can be contrasted with a general-purpose
programming language, such as Ruby, C, or Python. 
SQL is defined as a declarative programming language because its syntax
describes 'what' tasks should be done, rather than describing 'how' they should
be executed. The implementation for these actions are abstracted away from the
user by the SQL server.

// Q2
The three sub-languages of SQL are Data Definition Language (DDL), Data
Manipulation Language (DML) and Data Control Language (DCL), with each governing
different aspects of database interactions. DDL  is used to 'define' the 
structure, or schema, of databases. DML is used to manipulate and interact with
the data within databases. DCL is used to manage the rights and access roles of
the users interacting with a database.

// Q3
'canoe'
'a long road'
'weren''t'
'"No way!"'

Single quotes are used to denote the enwrapped characters as string values. In
the case where the string value contains a single quote itself -- such as the 
word "weren't" -- the single quote precedes with an additional single quote,
as shown above. 

// Q4

The || operator can be used to concatenate two or more string values.

// Q5

SELECT lower('HeLLo');
  lower
----------
  hello
(1 row)

The 'lower()' function in SQL is used to return a lowercased version of the
provided string argument. In the example shown above, the string value 'HeLLo'
was passed as the argument for the 'lower()' function. The returned output was
'hello', whose letters are only lowercased.

// Q6
true = t
false = f

SQL denotes 'true' and 'false' values with 't' and 'f', respectively. 

// Q7
SELECT trun(4 * Pi() * (26.3 ^ 2));

The expression shown above can be used to determine the surface area of a sphere
with a radius of 26.3 centimeters. The function 'Pi()' is used to return a
constant float value of math Pi. The sequence of characters, 26.3 ^ 2, is used 
to return the square value of 26.3. Finally, the 'trunc()' function is used to
return its argument (expectedly a float value) truncated to an integer.